---
layout: post
title: Don’t Underestimate Blind Doers
excerpt: "Debarghya Das, a Cornell alumnus, shook Indian media by hacking into ICSE results and exposing major flaws in the Indian education system. Following is a piece where he addresses the young undergraduates on why taking risks is less risky than taking none at all, written exclusively for the IIT Mandi student community."
modified: 2016-05-04
tags: [Perspectives from beyond]
comments: true
pinned: true
author: debarghya
---
*Debarghya Das, a Cornell alumnus, shook Indian media by hacking into ICSE results and exposing major flaws in the Indian education system. Following is a piece where he addresses the young undergraduates on why taking risks is less risky than taking none at all, written exclusively for the IIT Mandi student community.*



Many of us think a lot before making decisions. The insecurity stemming from the fear of making a wrong decision often makes us digress from the goal we had in the first place. Let me give you an example. I vividly remember the times in high school when both parents and peers ran amok trying to make the best educational decisions.

> Should I send him to tuition? Which tutor is the best? Should I send him to Kota? What about FIITJEE? If he wants to focus on JEE prep, maybe he shouldn’t go to school anymore. Who makes the best notes? Which book should I study Chemistry from? What is the format of the paper? I hear they’re stressing more on electromagnetism than kinematics this year. Putting in so much time into making the perfect decisions takes away from the intended goal - to know Math, Physics and Chemistry well.

We put a lot of time and effort into making the perfect decision whereas a slightly less optimal decision could yield a far better outcome. Perhaps if we didn't spend all this time thinking about going to umpteen tuitions and coaching classes, and used that spare time to read and reread a chapter until we could grasp the concept ourselves, we'd be better off.

Sometimes, even making the most rational decision possible leads to “safe” outcomes. In high school, they tell you to make it to a good college, and it’ll be smooth sailing. In college, they tell you to get a job, and then it’ll be smooth sailing. When you get a job initially you’re told to gain some experience before you can really take risks. When you gain some experience, you’re told you’re too old and you have to get married now. You spend some time with your partner and then you’re told to have kids. After kids, you have a house, a stable job and life. You’ve made perfectly rational decisions but you ended up just normal. For most, that may even be okay.  I like to call people who overthink every decision “over-rationalists”. *On the other hand, some people just do things off a whim, and hit unprecedented success. I like to call these people “blind doers”.*

Blind doers are common. They may not all be uber-successful. Often, they’re called weird or strange. That girl who fiddles with computers while everybody else plays outside. That guy who plays outside even when it’s blistering hot, practicing his cricket strokes again and again, while everyone stays in to study. They’re the crazy ones. I remember meeting a fairly successful friend in New York last year. As kids growing up, we have this notion of success being tied to intelligence. We envision successful people to have an aura to them. To be larger than life. This person was of above average intelligence at best. We went to the bar, chilled, and talked about the vacationing in Ladakh. His claim to fame was this company he started that did nothing novel. It copied an idea predominant in the US and brought it to the Indian markets despite many cynics saying it was impossible. His key quality was that he was a blind doer. Sometimes his decisions flew straight in the face of what made sense. Some of the reasons his company was so successful was because he had inordinate faith in his beliefs even when they didn’t seem correct to anybody else. Blind doers almost always do greater things than over-rationalists.

*Don't get me wrong - everyone needs to spend adequate time making good decisions, and there is a threshold of good decision making after which blind doers succeed, but they are the only ones that usually do. That friend was Rahul Yadav, founder and ex-CEO of housing.com.*

Let me tell you a far less interesting but far more relatable example from my own life. For most, college is very formulaic. Have fun, get good internships, get good grades, get good job/grad school. *I’d be lying if I said that didn’t matter to me too, but the most magical moments from college happened when I became a blind doer.* While logic dictated that I take an easy course load and enjoy my college experience, I set myself up for an inhumane course-load for several semesters just to test my limits. While logic dictated I shouldn’t be taking graduate classes as a first year, I went ahead and did it. While logic dictated I should probably just study for my Computer Science test tomorrow, I thought “Oh look, ICSE results came out this year. Let’s see if I can get them all. That would be a cool idea.”

> I remember when doing interviews after, I’d be asked “What inspired you to do the hack?”

Maybe people assumed that I knew beforehand that the ICSE portal had a flaw, decided today is going to be the day I will leverage my knowledge of Computer Science to download all the scores, find statistical anomalies I was 100% sure existed, and write a post to the world which everybody would read and be written about in the newspapers the next day. Obviously not. I had a nifty idea, and I went ahead and did it. I wrote my post on Quora’s blog for Christs’ sake. I don’t think anybody even uses that. Overnight, it seemed like everybody had read the article and found out about this flaw. All in all, a far better outcome than the “rational” A in some exam. When I published the post, I did it thinking not more than 50 people would read it. But sometimes, that’s all it takes.

(**Editor's note:** Read his [Quora blog](https://deedy.quora.com/Hacking-into-the-Indian-Education-System) to know more about the ICSE exam hack that Debarghya is talking about which remains among the most upvoted blog posts on Quora.)

Although I could apply this analogy to every one of my side projects, one other one in particular stands out by virtue of pure effortlessness. As a freshman, I found myself confounded by templates with which to make my resume. Nothing in particular met the very simple requirements most jobs have. I needed a black and white one-page resume that allowed me to fit a lot of content elegantly, and I couldn’t find one. Eventually, I whiled away some time on a Sunday just tinkering with a Microsoft Word doc until I found the perfect layout. I was fairly happy with myself and I used this resume for that whole academic year. By next year, some people had told me my resume was pretty neat and asked me how I did it. Most people called it out for being “too eccentric”. I was a little embarrassed to say “Word”. I wasn’t even going to change it until I realized making changes to the template in Word was driving me crazy. Solution? Obviously, use a templating engine like Latex. I spent some painstaking hours for no apparent reason converting my Word resume template into Latex. It wasn’t really necessary. I could’ve still done it in Word. In fact, I was no Latex pro either. I was learning how Latex themes worked for the very first time. Then, just because I could, I open sourced it. To my surprise, a few hours later, it was trending on Hacker News. I’d received emails from all the top Latex template sites asking for permission to put it up. Today, it’s one of the top 5 most used resume templates on all of these sites, and one of the most common ones particularly in the tech industry. When I had screened resumes for Facebook, and now Google, every so often I’ll see somebody using my resume template. The other day, I saw a stray copy of an intern’s resume using my template in the office printer, and I smiled. Who would’ve thought this non-sensical idea could bring such happiness?

(**Editor's note:** Link to the github repo of his much famed resume template: [Deedy-Resume](https://github.com/deedy/Deedy-Resume) )

> Blind doing is the foundation of many great innovations. Blind doing is what made Tesla - no rational person would think a luxury electric vehicle could compete with auto giants. Blind doing made Facebook - no rational being would've thought that building another MySpace would be used by billions of people. Over-rationality can work well if you want to be average-great. It can get you a great college, a great job, great wife, great house, great wealth, and great settled kids. But it never takes you past average-great. For that, you need to be a blind doer. Sometimes you will fail. Hell, maybe most times. But the times where it works out, it works out well.

**Don't over rationalize. Sometimes do things just because you want to.**
