---
layout: post
title: A walk to remember
excerpt: "Adventures around the campus!"
modified: 2017-03-01
tags: [Humans of IIT Mandi]
comments: true
pinned: true
author: saksham
image:
  feature: walk.jpg
---




Fourth semester endsems had just ended. Oh! That signals exam I still remember, bone chilling it was. Anyway, we were totally exhausted and knew that we had to do something, be somewhere, blow off some steam. Kunal Joshi, our super senior at that time, had once told us about his trip to revalsar lake on foot. Four of us, Deepak. Kapardi, Siddhant and myself decided to repeat that endeavour. Now, this may appear simple at first, but to put it into perspective, it is a twenty four kilometer walk, that too mostly uphill and we decided to attempt it after the sun was down, making it even more  treacherous. 

I had some work to do in Mandi, so I left early. When the other three came, I could sense tension over their faces. They had talked to Kunal and he advised against the idea because in this season, rain and snakes are the common features of that area. Amid all that, we decided to leave and started our walk at 11:30. We had flashlights and knives with us. As soon as we were at the outskirts of Mandi, there was not even a single freckle of light anywhere near. To see the extent of darkness, however ironic this statement may seem, at one point we decided to switch off our flashlights. Within a fraction of a second, all four of those were back on. It was pitch black. Anyway, it was not the darkness that made the trek treacherous as we realized later on. 

After we had climbed about 7 km, Neha called. She said in a tense voice, “ a leopard was seen in a village midway”. This was enough motivation for us to run back but luckily or unluckily it would be similar amount of risk coming back as it would be going forward. So, we decided to go on. After that we were extremely cautious, walking side by side with four flashlights, one of us canvassed the mountain side, one pointed it in the front and one towards the back. It was all going well until we heard a noise. A noise of footsteps from the mountain side, just by the road. We were scared as hell. As we moved forward, noise followed us. It may just have been a dog or maybe a fox but that's not what came to our minds. As we reached the next village, we decided to take a pit stop. 

There was a school bus standing nearby. One guy suggested that we should sleep in the bus till daybreak and then continue the journey. This was the same guy who was so scared throughout that not even a single time did he walk in the extreme left or right. I leave the identity of this guy to your imagination. Anyway as we moved forward, another noise followed us and it was much closer. We walked swiftly and reached a bridge. It was 4 in the morning, only half an hour till the daybreak. We decided to sit and wait on the bridge . There we were, four of us, sitting with flashlights and knives in our hands, with our backs towards each other, attentive and making plans in our heads as to how would we survive if a leopard were to attack. Nothing significant happened over that period of time. We continued our journey at daybreak and reached Revalsar at around 7 in the morning. We ate some paranthas and slept on the benches. Without doing much, we took a bus back to Mandi. It was never about the destination. It was always about the journey. And that was a journey to remember.






