---
layout: post
title: 7 types of people you find while taking rotis
excerpt: "A humorous classification of hungry people we find in our mess"
modified: 2017-02-22
tags: [Humans of IIT Mandi]
comments: true
pinned: true
author: vivek
---

The not-so-clever spy: 
The guy who sneaks in middle thinking no one noticed, while every guy in the line just recalled his lovely mom. You are too much of a hypocrite to hate him though. 

The princess: 
Yeah you know her, great assets, beautiful face. You still wonder why the \*err-cough\* you moved when it was your chance. 

That lazy guy who can’t walk 14 steps: 
	“bhai do roti mere leye lana” 

The waiter: 
“tere leye char, uske leye do roti…tere leye ek glass,uske liye chamach aur kuch?” 

The slave: 
Sorry I meant boyfriend. 

The grabber: 
The one who takes 20 rotis at once. Does he eat it? No! He goes and distributes it among people in other place…dude that was the place which was meant to distribute it. \*err-cough\* logic right?! 

The rational guy: 
At last the one with common sense. He knows how to stand in a queue. He is not a sexist in matter of roti taking, he fights for equal rights. He knows how one should only take two rotis if there is a shortage of rotis. Yes, he never gets a roti. 

Scene: while taking rotis in a huge crowd. 

First year girls: 
“Sir,bhaiya,Sir,Sir.ek-ek..sir ek roti plea-bhaiya ek roti…Sir” 

Second year girls(boyfriend included): 
He gets it. 

Second year girls(boyfriend excluded): 
“I touched this roti first,back off,This is mine!” 

Third year girls (boyfriend included): 
He gets it. 

Third year girls (boyfriend excluded): 
“i will chop your hand off, if you even dream of taking that roti” 

Fourth year girls (boyfriend included): 
SHE gets him the roti. 

Fourth year girls(boyfriend excluded): 
Just stares until the other guy drops the roti and runs away. 
while crying


