---
layout: post
title: The Indian Identity
excerpt: "An attempt to understand what makes the largest democracy of the world stay together against all odds "
modified: 2017-02-25
tags: [Perspectives from beyond]
comments: true
pinned: true
author: saksham
image:
  feature: priya.jpg
---

One British scholar once said that difference between Bengal and Punjab is much more than between Britain and Spain. India is not a country but a continent in itself. Merit of this statement is debatable but one thing is true that India is a country of disparity and differences. It has been quite sometime that I have been wondering how is India still a country in whole, what makes us stick together. The more I think in this regard, more confused I get. Now, once you see most of the countries of the world, there seems to be some kind of indicator which provides us with the identity of that country. Most of the Middle Eastern countries have religion, countries of Europe have geographies and languages, various other countries have a very long history of being together but once we go into the Indian history, there was never a time when most of this country was under a single ruler. Even in the medieval times, even under the mughals, there were various other small and large kingdoms existing. 
India that was born in 1947 was in a very real sense a new creation: a state that made fellow citizens of the Ladakhi and the Laccadivian, divided Punjabi from Punjabi and asked a Keralite peasant to feel allegiance to a Kashmiri Pandit ruling in Delhi, all for the first time. So under Mahatma Gandhi and Prime Minister Nehru, Indian nationalism was not based on any of the conventional indices of national identity. Not language, since India's constitution now recognises 22 official languages, and as many as 35 languages spoken by more than a million people each. Not ethnicity, since the "Indian" accommodates a diversity of racial types in which many Indians (Punjabis and Bengalis, in particular) have more ethnically in common with foreigners than with their other compatriots. Not religion, since India is a secular pluralist state that is home to every religion known to mankind, with the possible exception of Shintoism. Not geography, since the natural geography of the subcontinent - framed by the mountains and the sea - was hacked by the partition of 1947. And not even territory, since, by law, anyone with one grandparent born in pre-partition India - outside the territorial boundaries of today's state - is eligible for citizenship. Indian nationalism has therefore always been the nationalism of an idea.
It is the idea of an ever-ever land - emerging from an ancient civilisation, united by a shared history, sustained by pluralist democracy. India's democracy imposes no narrow conformities on its citizens. The whole point of Indian pluralism is you can be many things and one thing: you can be a good Muslim, a good Keralite and a good Indian all at once. The Indian idea is the opposite of what Freudians call "the narcissism of minor differences"; in India we celebrate the commonality of major differences. If America is a melting-pot, then to me India is a thali, a selection of sumptuous dishes in different bowls. Each tastes different, and does not necessarily mix with the next, but they belong together on the same plate, and they complement each other in making the meal a satisfying repast.

